tracking system using a global positioning system (GPS)
technology module to receive the location of the vehicle,
to forward into microcontroller and to connect internet
by a general packet radio service (GPRS) technology for
displaying a real time on the website map developed by
Google Map which allows inspection of vehicles at all
times. There are 3 parts of this project. The first part is a
program developed in C language for controlling the
hardware. Employing PHP and AJAX language will be
developed for the Google Map API to help a map
construction on the website. The second part is the
hardware, there are the GPS and GPRS modules, the
GPS module will locate the vehicles via the satellite, and
the GPRS module will assemble all data and send it to
the website by the microcontroller. The final part is the
interface using RS232 for connecting between the GPS
and GPRS modules. With the Google Map on a real-time
website, vehicles can be monitored and located very
effectively. This includes paths and/or vehicles directions.
However, the small error is at approximately 5 meters in
the wrong location due to the limitation of hardware and
the ratio of map reference.
Keywords: real-time, vehicle tracking, GPS, GPRS,
Google Map, website
1. INTRODUCTION
When seriously ill patients are transported by ambulance,
we suggest that a new mobile communication system
would improve the speed and accuracy of diagnosis and
save lives by transmitting medical data from the
ambulance to the emergency medical center via a high
elevation angle satellite (quasi-zenith satellite).
Nowadays, vehicles are essential to transport products or
goods in many organizations or firms, but there are many
problems of using the vehicles for their business such as
the delay of the deliveries, driving out of paths, or even
stealing oil and products. Therefore, GPS and GPRS are
important technologies for monitoring such problems.
However, it still is not easy to implement them for
monitoring and tracking vehicles on the website using
Google map. Recently, the GPS technology has been
presented in many researches. For example, the paper [1]
has presented a vehicle warning system be responsive to
vehicle speed and position as determined by GPS. The
paper [2] has proposed an object locator system for
obtaining information about the location of an individual,
animal or moveable object. The paper [3] has presented a
vehicle navigation of train, collision avoidance and
control system. The paper [4] has proposed an estimating
GPS time at cellular terminals based on timing of
information from base stations and satellites. However,
no papers have demonstrated the GPS and GPRS
technologies for a real-time vehicle tracking based on the
Google map.
 In this paper, a real-time ambulance/vehicle
tracking system proposes the use of a global positioning
system (GPS) technology module to receive the location
of the vehicle, to forward into microcontroller and to
connect internet by a general packet radio service
(GPRS) technology for displaying a real time on the
website map developed by Google Map which allows
inspection of vehicles at all times. There are 3 parts of
this project. The first part is a program developed in C
language for controlling the hardware. Employing PHP
and AJAX language will be developed for the Google
Map API to help a map construction on the website. The
second part is the hardware, there are the GPS and GPRS
modules, the GPS module will locate the vehicles via the
satellite, and the GPRS module will assemble all data and
send it to the website by the microcontroller. The final
part is the interface using RS232 for connecting between
the GPS and GPRS modules. With the Google Map on a
real-time website, vehicles can be monitored and located
very effectively. This includes paths and/or vehicles
directions. However, the small error is at approximately 5
meters in the wrong location due to the limitation of
hardware and the ratio of map reference.
2. TECHNOLOGY BACKGROUND
2.1. GPS Technology
A GPS tracking unit is a device that uses the
Global Positioning System to determine the precise
location of a vehicle, person, or other asset to which it is
attached and to record the position of the asse
intervals. The recorded location data can be stored within
the tracking unit, or it may be transmitted to a central
location data base, or internet-connected computer, using
a cellular (GPRS), radio, or satellite modem embedded in
the unit. This allows the asset's location to be displayed
against a map backdrop either in real-time or when
analyzing the track later, using customized software.
Figure 1. GR-82 GPS Module
2.2. GPRS Technology
GPRS technology (Figure 2) allows mobile phone to be
used for sending and receiving data over an Internet
protocol based network and the mobile system can keep
communication with the monitoring center when the
vehicle is at the speed over 100 km/h. So we can do realtime
radiation survey in large area. The system is useful
to the works such as routine patrols, nuclear terrorism,
radioactive pollution accident and nuclear accident.
Figure 2. GSM/GPRS Module: ET-GSM SIM300CZ
2.3. Google Map
GPRS technology (Figure 3) allows mobile phone to be
used for sending and receiving data over an Internet
protocol based network and the mobile system can keep
communication with the monitoring center when the
vehicle is at the speed over 100 km/h. So we can do realtime
radiation survey in large area. The system is useful
to the works such as routine patrols, nuclear terrorism,
radioactive pollution accident and nuclear accident.
Figure 3. Google Map
3. PROPOSED AND PROTOTYPE SYSTEM
We have implemented a prototype based on the designed
in Section III. Figure 1 shows the prototype of our GPS
Tracking Module. The size of the prototype is about 2.5”
wide by 4.5” long and by 2” thick. Figure 4 shows the
hardware at the ambulance that has a GPS and GPRS
Module. Figure 5 shows a proposed system of the realtime
GPS ambulance/vehicle tracking system displayed
on a Google-Map-based website consisting of five
processes as follows. For the first process, the GPS
module will connect the satellites and then it will be
received the position (latitude and longitude) from the
satellites. In the second process, the GPRS module will
connect the cellular antennas and then it will send the
position to the database servers shown in the third
process. For the fourth process, the proposed website
based on Google Map will display the vehicle tracking
using the data from the database servers containing the
GPS position. In the last process, the people can access
the website for monitoring the vehicle objects.
Figure 4. The hardware at the Ambulance.
4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
For the overall results, the small error for tracking
vehicles is below 15 meters in the wrong location due to
the limitation of hardware and the ratio of map reference.
We can see that the tracks of the mobile system can be
always displayed on the road of the electric map. GPS
can provide not only precise latitude and longitude data,
but also can provide very accurate time data by the
The 3rd Biomedical Engineering International Conference 2010 243
satellites. The time of the computers and PDAs can be
corrected by GPS before a start of the mobile radiation
survey. Figure 6 and 7 show an example of the real-time
GPS vehicle tracking based on Google Map. As shown in
Figure 6, there are two positions which are two different
times from 19:46 to 19:58. As shown in Figure 7, there
are two positions which are two different an oil level
from 3 down to 2.
Figure 5. An example of the real-time GPS vehicle
tracking based on Google Map (from 19:46 to 19:58).
Figure 6. An example of the real-time GPS vehicle
tracking based on Google Map (OIL Level 3 to 2).
Figure 7. The real-time GPS ambulance/vehicle tracking
System.
5. CONCLUSION
The real-time vehicle tracking system has been presented
through the use of the global positioning system (GPS)
technology module to receive the location of the vehicle,
to forward into microcontroller and to connect internet by
a general packet radio service (GPRS) technology for
displaying a real time on the website map developed by
Google Map which allows inspection of vehicles at all
times. The Goo-tracking system has shown the feasibility
of using it for fleet management. It can also be used for
lost vehicle tracking when working with the ambulance
alarm system. In the future, we will plan to integrate
other sensors. The sensors report vehicle status
information for intelligent tracking management.
However, it includes paths and/or vehicles directions and
the small error is at approximately 5 meters in the wrong
location due to the limitation of hardware and the ratio of
map reference.
